# die-class


README.mdCS 2401 Git/GitHubLabPrepared by: Nasseef Abukamail (​abukamai@ohio.edu​)November 2019You must complete the ​first lab​ prior to attempting this one. If you don't have a GitHubaccount, visit ​GitHub for Students​ to sign up. Make sure you use your school email toget the student's benefits.CredentialsMake sure you configure your user name and email in ​git​. Your credentials will be usedin ​git​ history. Verify your user name and email by issuing the command ​git config--list​. If your name and email are not shown in the list, execute the followingcommands to configure them.git config --global user.name "Enter your name here"git config --global user.email "Enter your school email here"Conflicts
In the previous lab, we discussed editing the same file online and in your localrepository which simulated having two people editing the same file. Conflicts occurwhen two developers edit the same content (same lines of code in the same file).From this point on, you will be working with a virtual partner. You should have aGitHub account registered with your school email by now. If not, please go aheadand get one. Next, you need to register for another GitHub account and use thetwo accounts to work on the same repository for this lab. Your school accountwill be referred to as ​first​ and another account as ​second​ virtual team member.Both team members:You will be working on files in the same repository to practice resolving conflicts. Youwill be createing a ​die class​ project that includes a class header, a classimplementation, a driver, and a Makefile. The ​Die​ class will simulates an ​n-sided​ die.1.first​: Create a repository on GitHub called ​die-class​ with a ​README.md​ and a.gitignore​ file for C++.A ​.gitignore​ file lists all the files that you don't want to include in a repository.For example, the executable file ​a.out​.2.Add ​second​ team member as a collaborator. You will need their GitHub username. Click on the repository ​Settings > Collaborators​.3.Both team members: Clone ​die-class​ repository on your system. You will berecording your answers in ​first-answers.md​ and ​second-answers.md​.4.first​: Create your answers file ​first-answers.md​, add, and commit it.5.second​: Create your answers file ​second-answers.md​, add, and commit it.first​: Erase the content of the ​README.md​ file and add the following lines at the top ofthe file (lines 1 and 2):# Git Lab #2## First team member: <Enter your name here>6.7.first​: Add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub.second​: Make sure ​first​ is done with the previous step. Erase the content of theREADME.md​ file and add the following lines at the top of the file (lines 1 and 2):# The second Git Lab## Second team member: <Enter your name here>
8.9.second​: Add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub. Record the error as yourAnswer to Qustion 1​. Git is telling you the online version is different from thelocal version of the repository. You need to ​pull​ the changes to your localrepositories.10.second:​ Issue the command: ​git pull​. Was there a conflict reported? Copy theoutput of the command as your ​Answer to question 2​. You just experienced aconflict. A conflict happens when both collaborators edit the same lines in thecode.11.second​: Open the ​README.md​ file in your favorite editor. You should see somethingsimilar to the following:<<<<<<< HEAD<your changes here>=======<your partner's changes here>>​>>>>>> a10ec650cc73b85f41e37559df7fc6cb3affcac6Git separates your changes (between ​<<<<<<< HEAD​ and ​=======​) from your teammate'schanges (between ​=======​ and ​>>>>>>>​). You job at this point is resolve this conflict byediting the file and make the appropriate changes. Modify the text to the following:# The second git lab## First team member: first name## Second team member: second nameThis repository is an example of a C++ project.Add, commit, and push your changes.13.first​: Make sure ​second​ is done with the previous step then edit the ​README.mdfile by adding the following line (line 4) to ​README.md​:Die class project. It simulates a die and includes a driver program.Add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub. Record the error as your ​Answerto Qustion 1​.14.first​: Git is telling you the online version is different from the local version of therepository. You need to ​pull​ the changes to your local repositories.15.first​: Issue the command: ​git pull16.first​: Issue the ​git push​ command again. Was there a conflict reported? Copythe output of the command as your ​Answer to question 2​. You just experienced
a conflict. A conflict happens when both collaborators edit the same lines in thecode.17.first​: Open the ​README.md​ file. You should see something similar to thefollowing:<<<<<<< HEAD<Your changes here>=======<your partner's changes here>>​>>>>>> a10ec650cc73b85f41e37559df7fc6cb3affcac6Git separates your changes (between ​<<<<<<< HEAD​ and ​=======​) from your teammate'schanges(between ​=======​ and ​>>>>>>>​). You job at this point is resolve this conflict byediting the file and make the appropriate changes. Modify the text to the following:# The second Git lab## First team member: first name## Second team member: second name### Die Project: simulates the rolling of a die with a specified number ofsides.18.Add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub.19.second​: Make sure ​first​ is done with the previous command and ​git pull​ thechanges to your local repository.At this point both teammates should have the same content on on their localrepositories and on GitHub. Check the repositories contents before proceeding the nextstep.Undoing Changes (Files/Commits)Each team member will complete the following section independently.One of the most important features of git is its ability to recover older versions of files orrepositories. Git keeps track of the repository history through its commits. Each commitis identified by a unique hexadecimal id/hash number (example:
e72f52ae4336d16d1affef8a0dc5162039022db2​). To see all commit history, execute thecommand ​git log​. You should see something similar to the following:commit e72f52ae4336d16d1affef8a0dc5162039022db2 (HEAD -> master, origin/master)Author: Nasseef Abukamail <abukamai@ohio.edu>Date:   Sat Nov 9 11:23:58 2019 -0500    added save functioncommit 3102d1072568e9a4648c51c762ff7cba3e9b3f9aAuthor: Nasseef Abukamail <abukamai@ohio.edu>Date:   Fri Nov 8 21:35:44 2019 -0500    All options work but does not save datacommit 71a215c6be3feee130c30341fc0c8d193b54bb74Author: Nasseef Abukamail <abukamai@ohio.edu>Date:   Fri Nov 8 21:35:16 2019 -0500    added a sample input fileThe id is generally used to revert your repository to a previous state. Additionally, theycan be used to recover a single file instead. Let's try some of these commands.Revert to a Previous Commit●Add another file to your repository and add some text to it and save it.●Issue the ​ls​ command to make sure your file is listed.●Add and commit your changes●Issue the ​git log​. You should see your commits (latest on top)●Let's say you changed your mind and you want to revert to the previous commit○Copy the id of the second commit in the list and use it in the followingcommand. You can just copy the first 7-8 characters.git reset <id>Undo the commit and keep the changes. The following command will undothe commit and remove the changes:git reset --hard <id>●Issue the ​git log​ again and the previous commit should no longer be present.Undo Changes to a Single File●Edit the ​README.md​ file and add a couple of lines text.
●Add and commit your changes●Reset the file to a previous version:git checkout -- README.mdRestore from the last commitgit checkout <id> -- README.md●Verify that the file has been restored.Branching & Pull RequestsWhen both team members have finished the above section, you may begin this section.The main repository is called the ​master​ branch. When working with teams, you want toavoid working directly on the master branch. It is desireable to work on a copy of therepository and later merge it with the master branch. First, you will work on yourrepository using a separate branch and merge it with the master. Second, we you willwork on a separate branch and have your teammate review your changes beforemerging (​pull request​).BranchingBranching is the process of copying the ​master​ branch of a repository into anotherbranch with a different name. Braching allows you to work on the project withoutaffecting the ​master​ branch. You can, later, merge your changes to the ​master​ branch.The following steps must be done by ​first1.List current branches by issuing the command ​git branch​ (you can exit this viewby pressing ​q​). Record the results as your ​Answer to question 3Create a new branch and make it the current branch.git branch header2.git checkout headerOr create a new branch and switch to it using the single command:git checkout -b header
